README.md, before:

# ToDo & Co

[![Symfony](https://github.com/lauralazzaro/projet8-TodoList/actions/workflows/symfony.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lauralazzaro/projet8-TodoList/actions/workflows/symfony.yml)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/e75c4044c8cb4aebbb72c6d8e07cbc13)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/lauralazzaro/projet8-TodoList/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)

## Description

Project 8 - OpenClassrooms PHP/Symfony Developer

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Database Setup](#database-setup)
- [Contribution](contributions.md)
- [Coverage](#coverage)

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following software installed on your machine:

- PHP (>=8.2)
- Composer
- Node.js and npm
- SQLite
- Symfony CLI

### Installation

- **Clone the repository:**

  Choose the URL of preference from the code page of the repository.

- **Create `.env.local` and set up the file with these variables:**

   ```bash
  APP_ENV=dev
  APP_SECRET=use-your-own-secret-key
  MAILER_DSN=smtp://your-email:your-password@smpt-server
  MAILER_TO=[use-your-email-to-intercept-signup-mail]
  MAILER_FROM=[use-your-email]
  ```
- **Create `.env.test` and set up the file with these variables:**

  ```bash
  APP_ENV=test
  APP_SECRET=use-your-own-secret-key
  DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///%kernel.project_dir%/var/test.db
  MAILER_DSN=smtp://your-email:your-password@smpt-server
  MAILER_TO=[use-your-email-to-intercept-signup-mail]
  MAILER_FROM=[use-your-email]
  BOOTSTRAP_FIXTURES_LOAD=true
  ```

- **Install PHP dependencies:**

   ```bash
   composer install
   ```

- **Install JavaScript dependencies:**

  ```bash
  npm install
  ```

- **Build assets for dev environment:**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

### Database Setup

- Create the database with:

    ```bash
    bin/console doctrine:database:create
    ```

- Create the tables with:

    ```bash
    bin/console doctrine:schema:update --force --complete
    ```

### Usage

To start the Symfony development server, run:

   ```bash
   symfony server:start
   ```

### Contributions

See [contributions.md](contributions.md) for information


### Coverage

All the files generated by --coverage-html can be found in `/public/test-coverage`.
To view them, once the server is started, copy-paste test-coverage after the base URL of the server.

Commit message:

upgrade to version 7.1.2 (latest stable version). added reasons for choosing this version of symfony and also the choice of the database. moved test coverage folder to documentation folder with also the diagram folder. added node.js and npm version

README.md, after:

# ToDo & Co

[![Symfony](https://github.com/lauralazzaro/projet8-TodoList/actions/workflows/symfony.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lauralazzaro/projet8-TodoList/actions/workflows/symfony.yml)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/e75c4044c8cb4aebbb72c6d8e07cbc13)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/lauralazzaro/projet8-TodoList/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)

## Description

Project 8 - OpenClassrooms PHP/Symfony Developer

## Table of Contents

- [Symfony Version Choice](#symfony-version-choice)
- [Database Choice](#database-choice)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Database Setup](#database-setup)
- [Contribution](contributions.md)
- [Coverage](#coverage)

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following software installed on your machine:

- PHP (>=8.2)
- Composer
- Node.js (20.15.0 LTS)
- Npm (10.7.0)
- SQLite 
- Symfony 7.1 (latest stable version)

### Symfony Version Choice

For this project, I have chosen to use the most recent stable version of Symfony instead of the Long-Term Support (LTS) version for the following reasons:

1. **Easier To Maintain Up To Date**: Using the latest version of Symfony makes it simpler to keep the project updated with minor releases, reducing the risk of large, time-consuming upgrades.
2. **Performance Improvements**: The latest version includes optimizations that improve the performance.
3. **Security Enhancements**: Newer versions have additional security features that are not always available in the LTS version.
4. **Access to Latest Features**: If needed, it makes easier to access cutting-edge features unavailable in the LTS release. 

For more detailed information, please visit https://symfony.com/releases

### Database Choice

For this project, I have chosen to use SQLite for the following reasons:

1. **Ease of Installation**: SQLite does not require a separate server setup, which simplifies the installation process and have the application up and running quickly.
2. **Testing and Demonstration**: SQLite is ideal for testing and demonstration purposes because it is lightweight and easy to configure.
3. **Simplicity**: SQLite is a single-file database, making it easy to manage and distribute with the application.

For production environments, it is recommended to use a more robust database system like MySQL or PostgreSQL. 

### Installation

- **Clone the repository:**

  Choose the URL of preference from the code page of the repository.

- **Create `.env.local` and set up the file with these variables:**

   ```bash
  APP_ENV=dev
  APP_SECRET=use-your-own-secret-key
  MAILER_DSN=smtp://your-email:your-password@smpt-server
  MAILER_TO=[use-your-email-to-intercept-signup-mail]
  MAILER_FROM=[use-your-email]
  ```
- **Create `.env.test` and set up the file with these variables:**

  ```bash
  APP_ENV=test
  APP_SECRET=use-your-own-secret-key
  DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///%kernel.project_dir%/var/test.db
  MAILER_DSN=smtp://your-email:your-password@smpt-server
  MAILER_TO=[use-your-email-to-intercept-signup-mail]
  MAILER_FROM=[use-your-email]
  BOOTSTRAP_FIXTURES_LOAD=true
  ```

- **Install PHP dependencies:**

   ```bash
   composer install
   ```

- **Install JavaScript dependencies:**

  ```bash
  npm install
  ```

- **Build assets for dev environment:**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

### Database Setup

- Create the database with:

    ```bash
    bin/console doctrine:database:create
    ```

- Create the tables with:

    ```bash
    bin/console doctrine:schema:update --force --complete
    ```

### Usage

To start the Symfony development server, run:

   ```bash
   symfony server:start
   ```

### Contributions

See [contributions.md](contributions.md) for information


### Coverage

All the files generated by --coverage-html can be found in `/documention/test-coverage`.
